In this section I'll tell you a little
bit more about evaluating the quality
of a search engine.
There are many measures for
the quality of a search engine.
There are technical ones such
as how fast does it index, and
how fast does it search?
We can look at things like expressiveness
of the query language, whether we're able
to express complex informational needs
with things like phrase queries,
negations, disjunctions.
People have other desires like
having an uncluttered UI and
a system that doesn't cost a lot to use.
All of these measures that are measurable,
that we can quantify them,
and we can get some kind of
score of what is their goodness.
But in practice all of those measures,
while important,
tend to be dominated by another
measure of user happiness.
That is the user happy in
using this search engine?
And speed of response and
size of the index are certainly factors.
But by themselves, blindingly fast,
useless answers won't make a user happy.
So a huge part of user happiness is,
are the results returned
results that they want?
And so that's the metric of relevance of
results to a user's information need.
I mentioned this right at the beginning,
but just to reiterate once more, when
evaluating the IR system that we evaluate
with respect to an information need.
So an information need is
translated into a query, and
that's what the IR system actually runs.
But relevance is assessed relative to
the information need, not the query.
So for example if the information
need is the person is looking for
information on whether drinking red wine
is more effective than white wine for
reducing your risk of heart attacks,
they'll come up with some query.
For example, it might be,
wine red white heart attack effective.
And that'll be submitted
to a search engine.
And in evaluating the effectiveness of
the search engine in returning relevant
results, we're not asking, are the results
that the search engines returns
documents that simply have
those words on the page?
Rather we're saying, do these documents
address the users information need?
Okay, well how can we go about doing that?
Well, if the search engine returns a set
of results, well then what we can do for
evaluation is if we start off with three
things, if we have some benchmark,
collection of documents that
we can use for evaluation.
And we have some benchmark set of
queries which are in some sense
representative of information
needs of interest.
And then we've gathered this third
thing which is assessor judgments of
whether particular documents
are relevant to particular queries.
Commonly in practice this can't
be assembled exhaustively,
certainly not if the document
collection is large.
But at least for a particular set
of documents that are returned by
particular search engines,
we can get the assessor to
judge whether those documents
are relevant to the queries.
Well, if we have a result set with just
these three things, we're in business.
Because we can use exactly the same
measures that we looked at previously,
precision, recall, and
the F measure that combines them.
And these are suitable good measures for
exactly the same reason that they are good
measures for when we're talking about
things like named entity recognition.
That normally only a few documents will
be relevant to a particular query, and so
we can measure that much better by looking
at these measures of precision and recall.
But what if we've now moved on to a search
engine that returns ranked results?
We can't just totally straightforwardly
use these measures of precision,
recall, and F measure because the system
can return any number of results.
In fact, the number of returns normally
depends on how often we keep on clicking,
asking for more.
But if we sort of look at any
initial subset of the results,
we can then work out the precision and
recall for that subset.
And then by putting them together we can
come up with a precision recall curve.
Let's look at how that works.
So here are the first 10 results for
a search engine where we've labelled each
result as either relevant or not relevant
according to an assessor's judgement.
And so then we can take any initial
subsequence of these documents and
work out a recall and precision.
So for the first document,
the system got it right.
It's a relevant document.
And let's assume that overall there are 10
relevant documents in the collection.
So it's gotten one of 1 the 10 relevant
documents, and so its recall is 0.1.
And well since that document was relevant,
the system was right on the first answer,
its precision is 1 at this point.
Well, the next document was not relevant
so the recall of the first two documents,
we're down to here now, is 0.1,
and the precision is now 0.5.
Another not relevant document,
so the recall is still 0.1,
and the precision has now dropped to 0.33.
And if we look at the set
of the top 4 documents,
we've now found 2 of the 10 relevant ones,
so recall is 0.2,
and our precision has gone
back up again to 0.5.
The fifth one is also relevant so
now our recall is
up to 0.3, and
our recall is up to 3 out of 5,
0.6, and we can keep on going down.
Maybe you guys could work out what
some of these entries are down here.
The other measure I want to mention,
one of the most used recent
measures is mean average precision.
If we look at the rate retrieval results
ordered this way to give me a bit more
room, and so
the first document returned is relevant.
The second one is not relevant,
say the third one is not relevant,
then a relevant one, then another relevant
one, not relevant, relevant, relevant.
Let's say those are our top eight results.
What you're doing for
mean average precision for first of all,
you're working on average precision for
one query.
And so the way you do that is by saying
let's work out the precision
at each point that a relevant
document is returned because that's
when you're increasing recall.
So here the precision is 1.
Here there are now four documents so
the precision is a half.
Here there are five documents so
the precision is 0.6.
Here there are seven documents,
of which four of them are relevant.
So this is around 0.58,
you guys can correct my arithmetic.
Here we now have eight documents, of which
five are relevant, and that's 0.625.
And then what we're doing to work
out the mean average precision
is we're kind of keeping on
calculating those numbers.
In practice normally they aren't
calculated exhaustively, but
they're calculated up to some point,
let's say 100.
And then you're calculating an average
function of all those numbers.
And that's then the average precision for
one query.
You then calculate the same
average precision for
all the other queries in your
benchmark query collection.
And you again take the average of that,
and
that then gives you
mean average precision.
So, in particular, this is what's
referred to as macro-averaging.
It's each query that counts equally in
the calculation of mean average precision.
So this is a good measure
that evaluates to some extent
precision at different recall levels
while still being weighted most
to what the precision is like for
the top few returned documents.
And at the level of
across different queries,
it's giving equal weight
to different queries,
which tends to be a useful thing to do
because you're always interested in how
systems work on queries of rare terms
as well as queries of common terms.
So this is a pretty good measure
to think about using for
evaluating information retrieval systems.
Okay, there's even more methods
that I could talk about, but
that's probably a good sense of how
to go about evaluating the performance
of a ranked retrieval system.